![](openright.webp)

# Copyright and the open exchange of information

## Freedom to express ideas

In the US and around the world, there are an increasing amount of laws,
regulations, and mechanisms which restrict a persons ability to access
and distribute information. While the entities that control the
information would promote these restrictions as necessary and good, some
of these restrictions are potentially harmful and should demand
reconsideration.

Freedom with the exchange of knowledge an important feature of a fair
and advancing society. It allows people to share ideas and learn from
others. Freedom of information helps with the advancement of art,
science and medicine, by allowing people to build from others work.

This article focuses solely on Copyright, as the original version did in
2006. The topic remains very relevant today, especially as the copyright
of Mickey Mouse is (again) set to expire in 2024.

### Purpose of Copyright Law

The purpose of a copyright as stated in the US Constitution, was “to
**promote the progress of science and useful arts**, by securing for
**limited times** to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries”.

While some have viewed copyrights to be at opposition with the free
exchange of knowledge, the key purpose of copyright law is shared with
the effect of information freedom: to promote the advancement of
society.

There must be a balance between any exclusive information rights, and
the eventual free exchange of the knowledge. If the duration of the
exclusive information rights is too long, this will encourage
suppression and information hoarding which would stifle advancement, and
free expression.

### Hereditary Privilege, …, again

Originally, the US copyright was 14 years, which could be extended to 28
years if the author was alive. The founding fathers wanted to prevent a
system of hereditary privilege where the printing guilds in Europe
controlled publishing and use of works of all authors, dead or alive,
for 137 years. Unfortunately, after several copyright extensions, we are
now have a close equivalent of the medieval Stationers’ Company, which
controlled the English copyrights, only now the controlling Companies now
are American media companies, which currently control publishing for 120
years.

### Thomas Jefferson on exclusive information rights

Originally, Thomas Jefferson was against information monopolies, stating
that “the benefit of even limited monopolies is too doubtful, to be
opposed to that of their general suppression.”, but later agreed to
allow exclusive rights, but only for a limited time, writing to Madison
“the following alterations and additions would have pleased me:
Article 9. Monopolies may be allowed to persons for their own
productions in literature, and their own inventions in the arts, for a
term not exceeding years, but for no longer term, and no other purpose.”

### Copyright Problems

The obvious problems with current copyright law are:

  - No check/requirement exists to insure that any copyright/patent
    extensions and law actually promote the advancement of science and
    art.
  - The term of copyrights go well beyond a amount of reasonable time.
    120 years for a corporation or 170 years(Life+70), does not really
    give more incentive for an individual to innovate than a 20-50 term.
  - The unreasonable copyright term possibly/probably removes future
    invention incentive, when the author/company/inventor(or inventor
    descendant) is already content from the previous work.
  - The unreasonable copyright term reduces general
    collaboration/derivation of invention and art, as derivative works
    are limited and perhaps costly for a century or two.
  - The 120 year copyright is really meant for corporations alone, not
    individuals.
  - A 100 copyright is ridiculous for software which is obsolete in 10
    years.
  - Retroactive copyright extensions go beyond the power of congress, as
    these extensions can not possibly promote progress (of past
    inventions?).
  - DRM mechanisms encrypt information, attempting to eliminate any
    possible free knowledge exchange at any time.
  - DMCA law criminalizes the removal DRM mechanisms.

### Hypocrisy about Public Domain

Big media companies often benefit from public domain material, then are
motivated to never release anything, including public domain derivatives
into the public domain. The biggest example is Disney.

#### Pinocchio
  - Original work: 1883
  - Copyright expiration (+56 years): 1939
  - Derivative work: 1940
  - Original copyright expiration (+56 years): 1996
  - 1976 Extended expiration (+75 years): 2015
  - 1998 extended expiration (+95 years): 2035

#### Sleeping Beauty
  - Original work: 1890
  - Copyright expiration (+56 years): 1946
  - Derivative work: 1959
  - Original copyright expiration (+56 years): 2015
  - 1976 Extended expiration (+75 years): 2034
  - 1998 extended expiration (+95 years): 2054

### Natural Reaction, Licenced Openness

Governments seem to have forgotten why reasonable limits on granted
information monopolies are important, and the “owners” of the
information monopolies have shown that they can sway governments to
impose endless extensions on any limits. This situation leaves many
people frustrated by the constraints and desiring a more open exchange
of ideas. In general, the way to increase the open exchange of ideas
under current law, is for authors, scientists and artists specify
copyright terms which are designed to encourage more reasonably
openness. The biggest example of such open terms today is with “Open
Source” or “Free Software”. In the case of Open Software, the software
copyright terms are such that the work and its derivatives are open for
use, derivation, and duplication. While other open copyright terms are
possible, such as self limiting the copyright term, the “Open
Source”/“Open Content” model has proved successful and is being
applied to other industries as well, with the general term “Creative
Commons”.

### Openness key to Science

A critical part of science is making the details of research publicly
available. This permits other researchers to review and verify the
results, as well as allowing building from one another's research. If an
“Engineer” makes discoveries, but by contract, the designs, source and
algorithms of the discoveries are kept secret indefinitely (forever),
this work could in no way be considered “Science”. Secret discoveries
are not science.

### Software Copyrights

No copyright on software has ever expired, even though software often
becomes obsolete in 5-10 years. And even if a software copyright did
expire, in the current common binary only distribution, this would be of
little use to anyone. For software to be truly useful to others, the
source should be made available in time.

### Copyright reform

It is very obvious that the existing information laws no longer have the
public in mind. Overly restrictive copyright and patent laws can
restrain progress in many areas of society, including science,
education, and medicine. To help the promote advancement in these areas,
re-examine copyright and patent laws with public advancement in mind.

-----

*Don Mahurin - 2006, 2022*
